# State Transition

When an identity adds a new claim to her Claims Tree, the root of the tree and, consequently, the identity state change. The process of moving from one state to another is defined using [**State Transition Function**](https://docs.iden3.io/protocol/spec/#identity-state-transition-function).

Before performing changing states of identity, State Contract verifies the State Transition Function proof. 

This proof can be:
* A ZK proof generated by the prover using the [State Transition Circuit](../../protocol/main-circuits.md#statetransition) and BJJ keys.
* An Ethereum transaction executed by the identity owner (for [Ethereum-controlled Identities](../identity/identity-types.md#ethereum-controlled-identity)).

## ZK State Transition Verifier

State Contract has `transitState` [smart contract function](https://github.com/iden3/contracts/blob/master/contracts/state/StateV2.sol), which verifies proof of `stateTransition` [circuit](../../protocol/main-circuits.md#statetransition), which represents a set of rules that identity holder needs to follow to complete the state transition such as:

- The prover is the owner of the identity (checked using a digital signature by the private key corresponding the `authClaim`)
- The `authClaim` of the prover hasn't been revoked.
 
The identity state gets updated by calling the `transitState` [smart contract function](https://github.com/iden3/contracts/blob/master/contracts/state/StateV2.sol#L148). To call this function, it is necessary to pass in the proof generated previously.

## Ethereum State Transition Verifier

Ethereum State Transition requires a `msg.sender` of an Ethereum transaction to match identifier provided. 

## State Transition Process

After successful verification, the `identities` mapping gets updated associating the `ID` with a new `IdState`, and GIST gets updated with the new `IdState` value.

This tutorial is split in 3 parts:

1. [Add Claim to the Claims Tree](./new-identity-state.md)
2. [Generate ZK Proof for State Transition](./state-transition-proof.md)
3. [Verify ZK Proof On-Chain](./on-chain-state-transition.md)

> Note: The Identity State Transition happens not only when an identity adds a new claim to the Claims Tree, but also when a claim gets updated or revoked (by adding it to the revocation tree).
